## Data and Code Group meeting, 19 October 2021

### Attendees

Damien Irving, Mitchell Black, Chloe Mackallah, Jennifer Mitchell

### Notes

- Role of the group: The Data and Code Group is responsible for developing and implementing data and code standards across ACS Project 2 and for coordinating the associated infrastructure and support.
- The Data and Code Group sits within the broader ACS structure as follows:
  - Australian Climate Service Part C: "Insights and Analysis"
    - Project 2: "Next generation national climate and hazard datasets and projections providing information for the past, present and future"
      - Work Package 4: "Future hazards information, assessment, verification, and supporting services"
        - Data and Code Group
- The role of Work Package 4 is essentially to monitor/ensure the quality and consistency of the outputs from Project 2.
- An initial team of four (Damien Irving and Chloe Mackallah from CSIRO and Mitchell Black and Jennifer Mitchell from the Bureau of Meteorology) has been asked to establish the group. We anticipate putting out an open call to all Project 2 staff offering two levels of participation:
  - Active membership: This will involve attending group meetings and collectively doing the work of the group. It is anticipated that only people with a large FTE allocation to ACS and a strong interest in data and code standards will be involved to this level.
  - Consultation list: The second level of participation is to be on the list of people the group consults when making decisions. It is anticipated that people who regularly write code and process data for the ACS will want to be on this list.
- Initial notes on code standards can be found at: https://github.com/AusClimateService/data-code-group/blob/main/code_roadmap.md
- Initial notes on managing the ACS CSIRO data storage: https://github.com/AusClimateService/data-code-group/blob/main/data_roadmap.md 
- Data standards: The consensus seems to be to follow CORDEX (and CMIP6 where possible) standards for all the new BARRA, BARPA, CCAM etc files we’ll be producing, but we don’t have any finer details sorted out or written down at this point. 
- The ACS is currently maintaining a register of data inputs and outputs. At the moment the register is a simple spreadsheet, but eventually a more sophisticated system will be developed. The idea is that the ACS system will be able to sync with other registers such as Geoscience Australia's GeoNetwork catalogue (NCI also uses a GeoNetwork catalogue) and a new government-wide register that is being developed. Similar information needs to be captured in the CSIRO Research Data Plan.
- The ACS has a process for deciding that something can be an official ACS product. We should try and get our code and data standards included as a requirement in that process (at least for products coming from Project 2).
- The solutions team is currently working on a Microsoft Teams instance that both CSIRO and BoM people can access. The documents and chat for the Data and Code Group can be hosted at that Teams instance once it's up and running.

### Actions

- [ ] Consider inviting the new solutions architect being employed by BoM and someone from Work Package 3 to come to one of our next meetings (and perhaps to join as part of the active membership). [Note from after meeting: David Jones also suggested inviting Wendy Sharples, Justin Freeman and Doerte Jakob to our initial meetings]
- [x] Damien and Mitch to work on case studies/examples of how to deal with code that we don’t own and/or didn’t write.
- [x] Ask David Jones and Richard Matear to clarify what storage/projects the BoM has available on NCI.
- [x] Start to develop a list of anticipated data volumes across Project 2.
- [x] Chloe to draft an initial discussion paper on ACS data standards.
- [ ] Chloe to find out whether the CSIRO RDP is interoperable (now or in the future) so that it might be able to sync with the ACS register (and the whole of government register).
