## Data and Code Group meeting, 15 November 2021

### Attendees

Damien Irving, Mitchell Black, Chloe Mackallah, Jennifer Mitchell, Dougie Squire, Claire Trenham, Chun-Hsu Su, Christian Stassen, Naomi Berger

### Notes

- At this week's Work Package 4 meeting, Damien, Chloe and Mitch have been asked to give a presentation about the Data and Code Group (i.e. who we are, what we're doing, etc). The purpose of today's meeting was to run through the [slides for that presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13stt8f270NlKducMlxSTvFEvwK_FuBhX0qCUNF1Gtk4/edit?usp=sharing) to make sure we're all on the same page regarding the various activities of the group 
- The ACS Data and Product Register is maintained by the ACS Information Governance Group and is currently available as a [spreadsheet on GovTeams](https://govteams.sharepoint.com/:x:/s/priorityworkclimateandresilienceservices/Ea-UHwyTmZRFgcUQr0rtfLcBAnjnKBbEf093Vx89wOzBZA?e=1Bx5K1)
  - Ask Jennifer Mitchell for access
  - It collects the following information: Title, Description, Purpose, Resource Type, Format, Identifier, Access URL, Licence, Copyright, Security Classification, Custodian/Point of Contact, Lineage, Data Source, Usage limitations, Date of collection, Date of release, Location, Legal Authority
  - Authoritative datasets (e.g. BARRA) don't need to list all their input datasets
- The xv83 compute allocation (approx 11 MSU per quarter) comes out of the general CSIRO allocation, which may not be sustainable in the long run
  - Many survey responses are yet to come in but it seems a number of work units within project 2 are relying on using ACS compute
- Some of the data on xv83 has a different group membership and thus doesn't come up in some reports of storage on xv83

### Actions

- [ ] Damien to ask (at the next Work Package leaders meeting) if and how the Data and Code Group should interact with data users and producers beyond Project 2 (e.g. from ABS, GA, etc)
- [x] Investigate options for automated data formatting checks
- [ ] Damien to add advice on licenses (and perhaps other optional best practices) to the code roapmap 
